Hello my friend.
Welcome again.
This is gonna be a bit more of a game design conversation in this video.
We're gonna be talking about moments I'm going to give you more information on what I think a moment
is.
And I'm going to challenge you to come up with a simple gameplay moment for your prototype as you have
it at the moment.
So couple of bits and pieces here in the words of Rick.
A good RPG in my opinion consists of a series of different interesting moments which require the player
to make meaningful choices.
The important point here is that they're different and I'm going to do a little bit of sketching here
for you.
I'm going to hit windows w I want a piece.
People often ask me how do you get your drawing thing Rick it's just sketchpad.
Windows WD to get that.
So if we have a very simple level layout so we're going from a this is where we first into the level
to be and this is a linear level we don't talk a lot more about Level Design later on but this is just
linear.
You going from A to B and you've got a little bit of a path.
You need to go through a little bit squiggly but the player can't really deviate.
They don't have choices with the path.
They just have to follow it to get from A to B.
Now along the way we're giving the player stuff to do and when we give the player stuff to do.
Often this is creating a moment something that's going on.
So for example a change back to the blue actually let's leave this on Blue.
So for example at the very start there might be a bridge that the player needs to cross to enter into
the area and then after they cross this bridge they're entering and here after they cross the bridge
maybe they come to a town and the town's got some houses in it and then after the town there's a say
a forest.
This is me trying to draw some trees here.
So the forest just pretend they look like trees.
It looks like a house.
What's going on here anyway.
Okay tree.
There we go.
That's how we draw a tree.
And then after the trees maybe you get to a lake after the lake pay.
Perhaps there is.
All right.
Now the forest again just because I'm feeling so good about now I know how to draw these triangle tree
things.
And then after that you might come to a big arena area where there's some sort of you know battle that's
happened.
And then at the end you've got a cave and inside the cave is how you exit.
Okay.
So that's that's how level we've created it was a pretty good level.
I like it from a to b.
Now as we go along we're giving the player things to do things that we saw at the start.
There might be just one big ogre at the very start that is kind of like a mini boss battle.
This is all leading up to a point trust me here.
Mini boss battle.
And then after you complete that perhaps you get into town and you have to find a particular NPC and
talk to an NPC have a conversation they give you some information.
Then after that maybe we reach an encounter where we have encounter I I usually use the word encounter
or refer to battle.
So having a battle there encounter.
This is our town with the NPC.
And then after the encounter we get to the lake and it's something different again maybe it's maybe
it's a whole bunch of.
So over here it was gods.
And over here there's a whole bunch of like monsters or something.
So it's different.
And then there's something else and something else and something else.
So the reason I'm going into detail on this is I think each of these is a moment that's a moment with
mini boss.
Then you have the NPC as you need to find and talk to in town and then you have gods you encounter.
That's a moment.
This is a moment you might have another one to three moments.
So I've got seven moments in my level maybe my intention is to have this level last about say 14 minutes
for example the play is going to go from A to B in 14 minutes then each encounter is going to be around
about two minutes as Sara each moment is coming round about two minutes.
So this moment here with the mini boss needs to be different to the NPC which need to be different to
the guards which need to be different in the monsters to make our game interesting.
I've seen a lot of early designs and people who are trying to figure things out well they have.
Okay here's two people I have to fight and then he is one person I have to fight.
There's another person I have to fight.
And then another person I to fight.
And then another person lives to fight another idea.
I know actually there's three people I have to fight.
It's just the same thing over and over and over again.
It's really boring and very dull.
So the important thing about moments is that they have to be different and they have to be interesting.
And where we are with our game at the moment we're not yet ready to create each of these moments because
we haven't put in all our features but I think we're ready to create one moment and that one moment
is going to give us a lot of information about what we need to build next in our game.
And it's starting to make a game.
This is how we make an RPG This is how we make a lot of games is you make a moment and then when that's
cool you make another moment when that's going to take another moment.
And that's the process and when you string them all together you've got a game that's often the way
that it works.
Okay.
Back to my slide.
So what tools do we have at our disposal we don't have a lot of features yet but we do have simple combat
you can hit and be hit.
We have simple enemy II they can attack.
They can patrol they can linger.
We have simple environment layout out things we can put obstacles.
We can make the line of sight to obscure enemies.
We can create an environment we can.
When you walk into an area we can give a story based upon how we've laid out our assets.
We can add some audio so we haven't gone through this yet but I'll probably do a little bit of voiceover
In this section as part of this cinematic stuff.
But you probably know how to do that already.
You can add a bit of music and add some sound effects.
You could add some visuals some some particle effects maybe grab some assets still assets maybe change
the lighting so already at this point of our project we have a lot of things that we can do even within
combat.
You could create one enemy that is fast and has no hit not many hit points you can create another enemy
which is big and fat and has tons of hit points so you can already do a whole bunch of variation within
your combat.
So all of this conversation is leading up to me giving you a challenge which is to design your moment
and here's the structure for what I recommend you do at this point is create a one sentence overview
of the moment and then second point is just note whereas the moment taking place is it at the warm visit
at the lake.
Is it at the village and then what is the player trying to do.
And finally what is one meaningful choice you can give to the player.
A CHOICE IS WHERE YOU SAY YOU CAN DO A or B or A or B or C or D and the player isn't just given a situation
where they say the only way to win this is just to walk up to that guy and punch him in the face.
That's all you can do.
So at this point with the tools that we've gone what's a meaningful choice that you can give to the
player.
Now I'm going to show you my answers to this so to give you a little bit of a better idea of how to
do this challenge.
So here are my answers.
The one sentence the player reaches a blockade is stopped by the Queen soldiers and mush must bash his
way through into the village.
Whereas this taking place it's on the outskirts of town.
It's that kind of the town gates.
What are you trying to do as the player.
Defeat the guards and stay alive.
And what's the meaningful choice.
Well I think the choice is to either attack the guards all at once or lure an individual away and have
one on one battles and we're just going to pretend the player already knows how to play the game we're
not going to worry about any tutorials or instructions were just saying someone who already knows how
to play the game.
This is a moment that's happening somewhere in the middle of our game.
It's not the very first thing that the player does at the very start of the game.
So there are my answers.
This is a reminder of the challenge.
Go through those points when you've done that.
Please share your design with our community.
Just write it up and throw it over into the forum so that we can see what you've got at the moment and
in the upcoming videos we're going to implement our moment.
So make sure you put a little bit of thought into this.
And when you have I will see you in the next video.